<script setup>
import SpoilerStd from '../../.vitepress/components/SpoilerStd.vue'
</script>

# Version 3

## v3.2

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Decreased PHP Requirement to 7.4 to re-support OC v2.2 installations.
- Added new navigation icons for catalogue and orders menus.
- Added new `<grp>_<idx>_<action>_<name>.php` migration file naming for a better overview.
- Added new enabled-state to currency + minor changes + tests.
- Added new enabled-state and additional title property to price category + minor changes + tests.
- Added new enabled-state to taxes + minor changes + tests.
- Added new enabled and default-states to payment methods + minor changes + tests.
- Added new enabled and default-states to shipping methods + minor changes + tests.
- Added new enabled-state to order states + minor changes.
- Added a new IsStates database model trait, to support is_default and is_enabled behaviors.
- Added a new PriceBag totals construct and handling.
- Added a new event to manipulate shipping country on FilteredTaxes trait, thanks to @Cryden.
- Updated console commands and database seeders.
- Updated demonstration content (+ add support for german translations).
- Updated available rounding options on Currency model to support extensions.
- Catch errors on HashIds trait + add typings.
- General code cleanup, especially on backend controllers and models.
- Replaced migration seeder in favor of Laravels / Octobers database seeders.
- Replaced old ReorderController behavior with ListController configuration.
- Replaced VuePress documentation with VitePress + refactored introduction pages.
- Fixed missing quickCheckout pages on GeneralSettings > Checkout page select field.
- Fixed missing translation strings.
- Fixed show OrderProducts on Orderlist -> ProductList component using the same currency as order itself.
- Fixed PHPUnit testing environment and tests.
- Fixed Wishlist component with no id parameter set.
- Fixed faulty empty-check that prevented indexing at 0 (int and string) values, thanks to @xyz1123581321.
- Fixed out of stock message even if stock was available, thanks to @xyz1123581321.
- Fixed wrong indexed value key on PropertyValue using color types, thanks to @toome123.
- Fixed wrong taxes calculation when discounts has been applied.
- Fixed wrong taxes calculation when different discounts has been applied to products and shipping costs.
- Fixed bad SQL error when addresses has been added to a customer profile on the backend.
- Fixed duplication mess on products with variants.
- Fixed possibility to take-over email address on CustomerProfile component, thanks to @cyril-design.
- Fixed products / variants disappear on first page view after editing a product.
- Removed legacy v1 code.
- `30_01-update_system_plugin_history.php`
- `30_02-alter_offline_mall_currencies.php`
- `30_03-alter_offline_mall_price_categories.php`
- `30_04-alter_offline_mall_taxes.php`
- `30_05-alter_offline_mall_payment_methods.php`
- `30_06-alter_offline_mall_shipping_methods.php`
- `30_07-alter_offline_mall_order_states.php`

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### Update your index

Due to an error, some products and variants (as well as their properties), were not indexed 
correctly, whereupon filter options may not work properly or other errors may be caused. Thus, it is 
highly recommended to use the command `php artisan mall:index` to completely renew the index. 

### Install new dependencies

Although October should install the dependencies automatically, in some cases - or in the case of 
manual installations - this must be done by hand. Thus call the following command in the root 
directory of your OctoberCMS set-up:

```bash
composer req whitecube/php-prices
```

For OctoberCMS v2.2 installations use the following one instead:

```bash
composer req "whitecube/php-prices:^2.0|^3.0"
```

</SpoilerStd>


## v3.1

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

-  PHP 8.0 is now required to run this plugin. General code cleanup.

</SpoilerStd>


## v3.0

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Introduced RainLab.Translate v2 support

</SpoilerStd>
