<script setup>
import SpoilerStd from '../../.vitepress/components/SpoilerStd.vue'
</script>

# Version 1 

> [!DANGER] DEPRECATED
> Version 1 of the Mall OctoberCMS plugin is no longer supported and will not be further developed.


## v1.16

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

Added Support for October 2.2

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.15

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

Fixed many bugs, added discounts for payment methods, optimized performance of product page, optimized October 2.0 compatibility

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.14

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

Added support for PHP 8. To make future transitions easier, optional dependencies for this plugin
are now only "suggested" and not enforced using Composer.

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### Check your composer dependencies

If you are using any of the optional features of the plugin, make sure to manually install the 
required packages using composer after this update. Read more on [optional dependencies](/guide/introduction/installation#optional-dependencies).

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.13

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Switched the default Stripe payment provider to use Stripe's [Payment Intents API](https://stripe.com/docs/payments/payment-intents)
- This now supports Strong Customer Authtentication (SCA) and 3D Secure payment flows.

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### Test a Stripe payment

The switch to the new API should not require you to change anything. To make sure your Stripe 
account is configured correctly, test this version against Stripe's test API before deploying it to 
production.

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.12

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Added [`QuickCheckout`](/guide/components/quick-checkout) component.

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### Include new QuickCheckout component styles

If you plan to use the `QuickCheckout` component, make sure to add proper styles to your CSS.

Check out the [`oc-mall-theme`](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme) repo for some inspiration:
[Commit that added QuickCheckout styles](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme/commit/4e51c1be10bfdea2c978817b0d10a4a3d1624ab7) 

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.11

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- RainLab.Translate` is now a required dependency of this plugin

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

Install `RainLab.Translate` via the backend settings or run the following artisan command:

```sh
php artisan rainlab.translate
```

Make sure that you are at least on version 1.6.6 of `RainLab.Translate`.

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.10

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Added property values to default Product component markup
- Added new [`$product->grouped_properties` accessor](/development/core/product-model#grouped-values)
- Added built-in support for PostFinance as a payment provider 
- Added dutch frontend translations 
- Various minor bugfixes

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### Apply styles to new product component partial

The `Product` component now displays all property values by default. Either remove these lines from 
your partialsor make sure to provide proper styling:

- See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/823ffc5755a20def0f72d7087f74712df6c53a1f)
- See [Theme Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme/commit/9946281b089831d3e1ec6f1d38ab9a6c93dce257)

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.9

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- PHP 7.2 is now required to run this plugin
- Property values are now translatable
- Added a new option to group search results by Product
- Wishlists can now have a shipping method attached (opt-in via new [showShipping-Property](/guide/components/wishlists#showshipping-bool))
- You can now set a default tax which is used as long as the shipping destination country is unknown
- Fixed various bugs when using country specific taxes
- E-mail templates now use translatable strings
- Optimized loading of translated attributes
- Various minor bugfixes

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### Update RainLab.Translate 

Update `RainLab.Translate` to version `1.6.3` to be compatible with this release. Version `1.6.3` 
enables eager-loading of translated attributes. This decreases the overall query count on all pages. 

### Update product component partials

If you override the `properties/color.htm` or `properties/default.htm` partials of the `Product` 
component, make sure to use new value accessors to properly load translations. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/4ba95c8808dda658e255d2688efaeae69f5ec8e9).

If you override the `tax-info.htm` partial of the `Product` component, make sure to uses the new 
`filteredTaxes` attribute to only display the correct taxes for the user's current shipping 
destination country. See [PR](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/pull/416/files#diff-52fecf5054aab175b91d3f4985e037cd).

### Update cart component partials

If you override the `cart/table/entries.htm` or `cart/table/taxes.htm` partials of the `Cart` 
component, make sure to select the taxes directly off the new `totals` variable. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/cc7fe4e51d6ac2f89122eb9722f3397f6a07eff2).

### Update wishlist component partials

If you override the `wishlists/cart.htm` partial of the `Wishlist` component make sure to include 
the new shipping method partial if you plan on using this feature. If you do not want to display 
shipping cost for Wishlists the component will still function without this change. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/a407e7c40f9efce52eb18c5180f3f59ebdf8c32a).

### Optional: Use included "Proceed to checkout button"

The `Cart` component got a new `showProceedToCheckout` property that includes a "Proceed to checkout" 
button with the component if enabled. The button will be removed correctly if a user removes all 
products from the cart. Until now it was not possible to remove the button if it was placed on a 
theme partial.

This change is opt-in. If you don't explicitly set the new property to true, the component output 
will be unchanged.

- See [Theme commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme/commit/b451cfdc922db907921dfd175f70fcf22c4637f5)
- See [Issue](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/issues/395)

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.8

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Added [PDF invoices](/guide/usage/payment-methods#pdf-invoices) and ["export as PDF" support for wishlists](/development/core/wishlist-model#pdf-download) 

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### `Wishlists` Component

A new "Download as PDF" button was added to the `Wishlists` component. If you did override the 
`contents.htm` partial manually and wish to offer the PDF download option, make sure to update your 
partial. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/b0bfe6a9349c4e049f990f02a4e9c71b442b4df1#diff-a7bdbfca77c921515277424280815187).

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.7

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Added support for [Virtual Products](/guide/usage/virtual-products)

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### `Checkout` Component

The `shippingmethod.htm` partial only displays a method if the user's cart consists not exclusively 
of virutal products. If you do not override this partial no action is required. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/95e93dd96998b71fce665a12aa65d75a83258248#diff-e8cf26df26eeb4db9c1398b4479dc8e1).

### `Signup` Component

If you have extended or customized the `Signup` component, make sure to check for the new 
`mall.login.redirect` Session entry for any pending redirects. However, it is very unlikely that you 
modified this component yourself. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/c961a51e15b82af6198a2a23a6f1059bf6fcd572)-

### `order.table` mail partial

The order table mail partial contains a new info about the download link of virtual products. Add 
this if you customized to partial and plan to use virtual products. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/ba3f5f67a8015754697244d7a906e9db729fccb6).

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.6

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Added [Reviews](/guide/usage/reviews) feature 

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### Reviews are opt-in for existing installations

If you update to v1.6.0, you have to enable reviews via the backend settings. This will include the 
new `ProductReviews` component, which you will have to style!

### `product` Component

The form tag was moved to only enclose the cart part of the component. If you did not override these 
partials no action is required. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/5131775b66daac5e1f491536aaff96275dd37bb2).

The `productReviews` component was added to the `info` partial of the `products` component. If you 
did not override these partials no action is required. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/d7266017af8dc0c664afce657739b05ccc02bb41).

### Styles for review component

The new reviews component needs new styles. For styling inspiration take a look at [the commit to the demo theme](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme/commit/f73cee041d756a36edb6e648525d18ee82b3303a).

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.5

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- [Services](/guide/usage/services) can now be managed in the backend and can be added to products
- The `mallDependencies` component now injects a global `.mall-modal` element into the DOM

</SpoilerStd>

<SpoilerStd label="Required Actions">

### `mallDependencies`

Make sure the `mallDependencies` component is added to your layouts `<head>` tag, and is not just 
included in the code section. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme/commit/334e9a0abd89c701473a528ff1b9b43f332bce03).

```twig{6}
[mallDependencies]
==
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    {% component 'mallDependencies' %}
</head>
```

### `.mall-modal`

If you make use of the new `Services` feature, make sure to style the `.mall-modal` element. For 
styling inspiration take a look at [the commit to the demo theme](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme/commit/6660c9572f268164e031b9496366d0d82bd65003).

### `mall.cart.productAdded`

If you did override the `components/product/default.htm` partial, make sure to only fire the 
`mall.cart.productAdded` event if the `data` object has a `added` key with the value of `true`. See 
[Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/commit/771e3d94685d1636b27c78ef66736a241dd6e36e).

### Service options in cart overview

If you did override the `components/cart/table/entry.htm` partial, make sure to add the new service 
option information. For styling inspiration take a look at [the commit to the demo theme](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-theme/commit/e02cb36d764395a212372abd83ea1a053560c0ed). See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/compare/60c8f017ce0c85928ee0c6be3ef72034e1c7f0e5..3af55dc05f903dbe2a91da1d11d9cd76a3eaa67b#diff-97d9934bc5c6ea57aae23f2b172615f1).

### Service options in confirmation mail

Make sure to add the new service options output to the `mall.order.table` mail partial if you plan 
to use the services feature. Keep in mind that you will have to purge the partial from the database 
if you modify it on the filesystem. See [Commit](https://github.com/OFFLINE-GmbH/oc-mall-plugin/compare/60c8f017ce0c85928ee0c6be3ef72034e1c7f0e5..3af55dc05f903dbe2a91da1d11d9cd76a3eaa67b#diff-c756239ec92b708c1325201d3c196ac0).

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.4

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Added Wishlists feature

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.3

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Added Google Merchant Center integration

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.2

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- Customers can now re-use payment methods (like Credit cards)

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.1

<SpoilerStd label="Changes">

- A product can now belong to multiple categories. If you are using the `$product->category` 
relationship directly make sure to update it to use the new `$product->categories` relationship. 
Existing products will be migrated to the new database structure during this update.

</SpoilerStd>


## v1.0

**Initial Release**
